Smart Cities are all about getting the right data to the right people at the right time to solve complex
urban challenges. With development of IoT devices and other methods to sense the city, real-time data is increasing every day, offering cities the chance to address these challenges in smarter ways.
The future of Governance is data driven and Indian cities are beginning to adopt this change in their functioning. Bringing data in focus ensures a move towards outcome-based planning in governance.
Smart cities are looking to leverage data generated by systems and processes deployed in cities for generating business intelligence and improving their operational efficiency

data of India’s urban population growth and their contribution towards GDP
2011 – 37.7 crore
2030 – 60 crore
2050 – 80 crore

The growing urban population places a significant burden on civic infrastructure and services like sanitation, water , sewage, housing, electricity and public transport.

Atlantis converged the internet of Things, machine learning, artificial intelligence and tapped into pervasive connectivity to make cities and communities better integrated to enhance their efficiency.

An Artificial Intelligence Urban Services Platform
Quantela’s Atlantis is a platform encompassing the digital life cycle of Urban infrastructure implementations from Data Acquisition, Automation, Cross domain AI Analytics.

It has three components:-
Atlantis Automation Engine :-  It enables the administrators to remotely monitor, control and optimize the infrastructure which simplifies and automate the city’s operations and policies.
The platform provides a powerful set of services to ingest and process data from wide range of data sources. These data and events can be analysed and visualized in the Atlantis dashboard, But  they can also be used to automate city operations.

The platform is extensible and provides rapid integration and development capabilities to acquire and visualize the real-time data and events from multiple datasource like Sensors, Vedio Analytics eGov, OpenData

Atlantis connects city infrastructure over a common network, data layer and stack. It provides an end to end solution for the challenges that smart cities face, enabling them to improve operational effetiveness, productivity, cost-efficiency and overall citizen quality of life.

Rapid Urbanization :- Rapid growth puts pressure on city Infrastructure, making it harder to maintain citizen quality of life.

Environmental pressure:- Greater need to manage carbon footprint and improve sustainability

Economic pressure:- Boosting livability index is more crucial than ever to retain and attract trade,
commerce and talent