Q) What is DataEngineering ?

Data Engineering is quite popular in the field of Big Data. and it mainly refers to Data Infrastructure or Data Architecture.
Data generated by many sources such as social media, mobile, internet, are Raw data. It needs to be transformed, cleansed
profiled, and aggregated for Business Needs. The practice of designing, architecting and implementing the data
process system which willhelp to make data transformed and converted to useful informations is called Data Engineering.

Q) Explain the daily work of Data Engineers
1) With the help of python programming language and the rich set of libraries we have implemented the algorithms
developed by data science into the Recommendation Engine platform so that it is shiped to the end customer.
2) Developed the API services to accomodate the backend models with the help of python and flask framework.
3)Developed complete Architecture and its dataflow of the product
4)once the complete flow is developed we released it to development server and tested.
5) Wrote cronjob and scheduled these models so that it is working as per the scheduled
6) Colaborated with devops team to implement it on the production server.
7) then wrote cleanup scripts, raw_data simulation scripts, raw_data pipeline, raw data setup
8) I have developed complete data pipeline

Q) Do you have experience with Data Modelling?
Q) What are different types of  design schemas in Data Modelling
Star schema :- fact tables and dimentions tables
Health sector use case
Q)What are some common problems faced by data Engineer ?
1) Real Time integration/ Continuous integration
2) Storing the Huge data is one issue and informations out of that is another issue
3) which tool can be best which will give the best performance, storage, efficiency and results
4) Does the storage scale ? suppose how to know that for processing the entire set of data how long will it take
5) How to deal with failure, is fault tolerence there or not ?

Q) How is Data Architect different from Data Engineer ?
Data Architect is the person who is mainly dealing with the different numbers of variety of data sources.
In-depth knowledge of databases(sql or nosql), how data relates to the business problems,


Q) What is Elastic search ?
Elasticsearch is a distributed open source search and analytics engine for all types of data, including textual,
numericals, geospacial, structured and unstructured. Elastic search is built on the top of lucene. Known for its
simplest REST APIs, distributed nature, speed and scalability, Elasticsearch is the center of Elastic stack - a set of open
source tools for Data ingestion, enrichment, storage, analysis, and visualization.

Elasticsearch is used for speed and scalability . Use cases for Elastic search
Application search
Website search
Enterprise search
logging and log analysis
Infrastructure metrics and containere monitoring
Application performance monitoring
Geospacial Data analytics and visualization

Q) How Elastic search works ?
Raw data flows into the Elasticsearch from a variety of sources, including logs, system metrics, and web application.
Data Injestion is the process by which this raw data is parsed, normalized, and enriched before it is indexed into the
Elasticsearch.
Once indexed in Elasticsearch , users can run complexed queries against their data and use aggregation to retrive
complex summaries of their data. From Kibana, users can create powerful visulization or their data.


Q) What is an Elasticsearch Index?
An Elasticsearch Index is the collection of documents that are related to each other. During the indexing process
Elasticsearch stores documents and builds an invertex index to make the document data searchable in near real time.

Q) What is Logstash used for ?

Logstash, one of the core product of Elastic stack is used to aggregate and process data and send it to Elastic search
Logstash is an open source server-side data processing pipeline that enables you to ingest data from multiple
sources simultaniously and enrich and transform it before it is indexed into the Elastic search

Q) Why use Elasticsearch ?
Elastic search is fast
Elasticsearch is distributed in nature
Elatic searhc comes with wide set of features
The Elastic stack simplifies data ingestion, visualization and reporting

Q) What is a cluster in Elastic search?
It is the set or the collection of one or more than one node or servers that hold your complete data and offers indexing
and search capabilities across all the nodes.

Q) What is a node in Elastic search ?

Q) What is Mapping in Elastic search?
Mapping is the outline of the document stored in an index. it defines the data type such as geo_points of a field
present in the document.

Mapping is the process of defining how a document and field it contains are stored and indexed.
For instance use mappings to define
which string fields should be treated as full text field.
which field contains numbers, dates, or geolocations.
the format of date values
custom rules to control the mapping for dynamically added fields.
Mapping is the process which defines how a document is mapped to a search engine. searchable characteristics are included
such as which fields are tokenized as well as searchable.

Q) What is Document ?
A document in Elasticsearch is similar to a row in relational databases. The only difference is that every document in an
index can have a different structure or field but having a same data types for common fields is mandatory.Each fields
with different data types can occur multiple times in a document. Document is the collection of fields which are the key-value pairs
which contain your data.

Q) What is shards?

Data or documents can be partitioned into different portions which are managed by different nodes or instances of
Elastic search.

Q) What is the REPLICA SHARD?
They serve the purpose of fault tolerence and high availability.

Q) How to add or create an index in Elastic Search Cluster?
put /products
{
  "settings" : {
    "number_of_shards" : 2,
    "number_of_replicas" : 1
  }
}

Q) How to delete an index in Elastic search?
PUT /products/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "discount": {
      "type": "boolean"
    }
  }
}

Q) How can you retrieve a document by ID in ES.?
GET /anand/_doc/4880

Q)
























